GIT
- Git is a version control system.
- It manages source code and track the history.



GITHUB
- hosting and collaboration provider.
- github allows us to bring local project from git.
   

- On MAC we have two different shells (diff text input interfaces) 
1. first one or older one - bash     
2. latest one - zsh (Z-Shell)

- On WINDOWS
1. command prompt (cmd)- initial windows shell
2. powershell - new shell(windows 7 release)
3. git bash - bash emulations for windows

- Command line tools 
for MAC - Terminal (z-shell)
for WINDOWS - Command Prompt(cmd)

On MAC
1. pwd(print working directory) - pwd allows us to show that where we're currently yet.
2. ls(list items) - shows us all the list items in that folder
3. cd(change directory) - to change the current directory.
4. cd ~ - it shows us that now we are in home folder.
5. cd .. - coming back from that directory.
5. clear - clear all the commands from terminal.but does'nt delete the history.
6. mkdir <name of folder> - to create new folder
7. touch <name of file> - to create new file , we can also create many files by giving space between their name.
8. rm <name of the file which we want to delete> - rm means remove , it deleted the file , we can also remove multiple files.
9. rmdir <name of the folder which we want to delete> - rmdir means remove directory.
10.these are flags that tells us additional information .
   1. ls -s - size of the file or the foler.
   2. ls -l - time and date of the file or the folder when they created.
   3. ls -ls - file size at the begining then time and date (not so helpfull).
   4. man ls - it tells us about all the flags.
11. cp - copying the file into another file by using cp <name of folder>/<name of file> <name of folder in which we wanr to copy>.
12. git init - initialize the git.
13. git add . - staged the file.
14. git branch - tells us the current branch.
15. git branch -M main - changes the branch (default branch is master).
16. git commit -m "message" - commit means we don't want to change it .
17. git push origin main - pushes the file github.
18. git push -u origin main - it we use -u then we don't have to write the whole line we can  also write git push.






